Welcome, everyone. In this program, we are going to find out what the year text will be for 2023.
So, stay tuned.
But first, here are a few updates.
No doubt we all enjoyed the Pursue Peace Convention.
Wasn't that an outstanding program? It was so practical.
And how thrilling it was to hear the announcement that we're planning in-person regional conventions for 2023.
After three years, it'll be so good to meet together with our brothers and sisters in-person at a convention.
It's also exciting that we'll return to the House to House Ministry starting September 1st, just in time for our worldwide campaign to start Bible studies.
And I'm sure the angels are going to be excited too because it'll give them opportunities to help us with our ministry.
We pray for Jehovah's rich blessing on our efforts to offer Bible studies to as many people as possible.
It's been so refreshing, hasn't it, to resume more and more of our theocratic activities in-person?
We're grateful for the good direction Jehovah is providing.
It strengthens our faith in Him and our confidence in His organization.
What a contrast with the world.
People today are suffering from a crisis of confidence.
They have doubts about whether the people they look up to, politicians, scientists, businessmen really have their best interests at heart.
They wonder, do they really care about me or are they just out for themselves?
What about the clergy of Christendom? Many have lost respect for them too.
So it's not surprising that they're skeptical about the book the clergy claim to represent the Bible.
How can we help people to have the same confidence in God's word that we have?
Let's consider three reasons why we can trust the Bible.
The accuracy of the text, the fulfillment of Bible prophecy, and the Bible's power to change lives.
First, the accuracy of the text.
Bible writing was completed almost 2,000 years ago.
And as far as we know, not one of the original manuscripts has survived to our day, so how we have our copies of copies.
Understandably, some wonder if, with all that copying and recopying, the Bible's message has been changed.
After the Babylonian exile, a group of professionals intensified efforts to make copies of the Hebrew scriptures, and they took their work seriously.
Later copies were very conscientious. They began to count not only the words, but even the letters they copied to make sure that no changes were made.
Even so, because of human imperfection, some small errors crept into the Bible text.
Modern scholars have a reliable way of identifying those errors.
How so? Let's illustrate.
Suppose 100 men are assigned to copy a page of text, and one of the men makes a slight error in his copy.
Now, one way we could find that error is by comparing his copy with the 99 others.
Similarly, by comparing a number of Bible manuscripts, scholars are able to identify errors or omissions that one copy is made, and these can be corrected.
So, we can have confidence that our modern Bibles accurately reflect God's message to mankind.
Just how diligent were those men in copying Bible manuscripts?
The oldest complete manuscript of the Hebrew scriptures dates back to 1,000 in the native, 1,000 in the nine of our common era.
It's called the Leningrad Codex.
In recent times, a number of Bible manuscripts and fragments have been discovered that are about 1,000 years older than the Leningrad Codex.
We might think that after those manuscripts were copied and re-copied over a period of 1,000 years, there'd be a big difference between the text of the Leningrad Codex and the older manuscripts.
That's not the case.
Scholars have carefully compared the earlier manuscripts with the later ones, and have found that God's message to mankind has been accurately preserved.
The early Christians diligently made copies of the Greek scriptures, which they used at congregation meetings and in the ministry.
Scholars who have compared copies of those manuscripts have concluded that our Bibles carried the message that the original writers wrote down.
No doubt it was Jehovah, who made sure that his message to mankind was accurately preserved.
We're reminded of the words found at Isaiah 40 and verse 8.
The word of our God, and yours forever.
Of course, some may argue that just because the Bible has been preserved doesn't prove that it was inspired by God.
Fair point. So let's consider evidence of the Bible's inspiration.
The Bible contains many prophecies that have already been fulfilled. Daniel's prophecy regarding the Anglo-American world powers just one example.
Let's read the prophecy.
As found at Daniel chapter 2, verses 41 to 43, and you can follow the text on screen if you wish.
And just as you saw the feet and the toes to be partly of clay of a potter and partly of iron, the kingdom will be divided, but some of the hardness of iron will be in it.
Just as you saw the iron mixed with soft clay, and as the toes of the feet were partly of iron and partly of clay, so the kingdom will be partly strong and partly fragile.
Just as you saw iron mixed with soft clay, they will be mixed with the people, but they will not stick together, one to the other.
Just as iron does not mix with clay. According to the prophecy, Britain and America would be partly strong and partly weak.
They showed their strength when they played a role in winning World War I and World War II, but their power has been weakened not so much by their enemies, has by their citizens, the citizens insist on their rights through labor unions, civil rights campaigns, and independence movements.
One expert in world politics recently observed, there is no advanced industrial democracy in the world, more politically divided, or politically dysfunctional than the United States today.
What about the other part of the dual world power, Britain? It's been especially divided over the ties it should maintain with the European Union.
So, it's been almost impossible for the Anglo-American world power to act decisively.
Seeing this prophecy and so many others being fulfilled, strengthens our faith that Jehovah will keep all of his promises.
What does the song say? What he foretells comes to be.
For a third reason why we can trust the Bible, let's see how following the Bible's advice affected a violent criminal will call Jack.
Now, Jack was in prison waiting for the death sentence to be carried out.
He had the reputation of being one of the most dangerous inmates on death row.
One day, Jack sat in on a Bible study, and he was impressed by the love and the kindness of the brothers who were conducting the study.
So, he asked for his own study. As he applied what he was learning, his conduct and personality began to change.
In time, he got baptized.
During his time in prison, he helped at least four of the inmates to learn the truth.
When the day of his execution arrived, one of his lawyers said,
Jack is not the same person I knew twenty years ago. The teachings of Jehovah's Witnesses have changed his life.
Well, we know that it's the Bible that changes lives.
Jean is another person whose life was radically changed by Bible principles. He grew up in an African country.
When civil war broke out, he joined the army, but later fled to a neighboring country where he came in contact with the witnesses.
He says, I learned that followers of the true religion don't get involved in politics and are not divided.
Rather, they love one another.
Jean says, I had dedicated my life to defending a country, but when I learned Bible truth, I was moved to dedicate my life to Jehovah.
Jean changed completely.
Instead of fighting against people of a different background, now he shares the Bible's message with everyone he meets.
The fact that the Bible's advice works so well for people from so many different backgrounds is powerful proof that we can trust God's Word.
So, we've considered three simple lines of evidence that we can point to in order to convince people that they can have confidence in God's Word.
Do you remember what they were?
The Bible's message has been accurately preserved. Ancient Bible prophecies are being fulfilled today and the Bible changes lives.
As this world goes from bad to worse, our confidence in the truth will be put to the test.
People may try to sow doubts in our mind, doubts about the truthfulness of the Bible, for example.
If we are convinced that God's Word is always true, we will be able to resist such attacks on our faith.
Bible truth stabilizes us. It gives us a definite purpose and clear direction in our lives, and it provides us with a wonderful hope for the future.
The writer of Psalm 119 was absolutely convinced that God's Word is a reliable guide. Now we don't know who that writer was, but we do know that he cherished God's Word.
To remind us of how important Bible truth is to us. The governing body has chosen as our ear text for 2023, words from the 119th Psalm.
Are you ready? Here it is. The ear text for 2023.
The very essence of your Word is truth. The very essence of your Word is truth. Psalm 119-160.
With these thoughts in mind, how wonderful it will be to share in our worldwide campaign to help honest-hearted people to study the precious truths found in God's Word.
Meet Jehovah bless us all as we share in the campaign. From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.